Stop before you watch this
video, we gotta do this.
If you like Python. Cool. And.
You enjoy coffee. Continue. Let's do this.
Else.
I wasn't prepared for this.
Why are you here?
Welcome to episode six of
my Python right now, series,
where I'm gonna teach you everything
you need to know to become dangerous and
Python in this episode. Woo. Get ready.
We're gonna get more control over
our Python programming. And so far,
we've done great job because we've kept
evil Ben from coming into our coffee
shop, but we have a new problem, evil Ben,
the only person we have to worry
about now, now we have evil, Patricia.
Patricia.
Get it together, sweetie. We have a.
Show this weekend,
evil Patricia is way worse than Ben and
we have to keep her from entering our
coffee shop. But to do this, we
have to gain some new skills skills.
We're gonna talk about here in this video.
We're no longer looking for just Ben.
If name equals Ben.
Now we're like if name equals
Ben and also Patricia, how,
how are we gonna do that? It's a thing
called logical operators and yeah,
they're fun. So get ready.
And the best part is you don't
need a dang thing to do this.
Just like every episode in this course
you'll have access to a free Python lab
right here in your browser. So check that
link below and get signed up. And uh,
oh, you know what? Forgot one
thing. You need coffee by now.
You should know that. I mean,
how else did you get past my,
if statement at the beginning
of this video, if you're here,
you already have coffee, right?
And a massive shout out to our
sponsor of this entire series.
And the reason it can be free
here on YouTube, it pro TV.
If you really wanna get serious about
your it career, or you're like, Hey,
I want to get into it. You need to
check out it pro TV. They're the,
by just by far the best
learning platform out there,
I use it pro TV to keep myself up to
date on all the new technologies and just
to learn new stuff, wherever
you're at in your it journey.
They have you covered from foundational
skills. If you jump in there real quick,
dude, check this out. That's
pretty slick. So it fundamentals.
Stick your toe in the water of it.
Then build up some Linux skills,
routing and switching customer
service mean, dude, this is so cool.
So for those of you who ask me,
Hey, how do I get started in it?
Follow this stinking path right here.
Because not only will you
get to learn a ton of stuff,
but you're doing things hands on. They
have hands on labs built into this,
which is really handy when you go for
the more advanced things like, uh,
I don't know, Python,
if you wanna learn more Python
than what I'm showing you here,
they have a ton of stuff. Python
or networking, Python for security,
where to go. Yeah. Right here. And pretty
much anything you want to learn in it.
So if you're ready to take
your it career seriously,
and you wanna learn it like me, check it
out. Link below, use the code network,
Chuck, and you'll get 30% off Forever.
So do it now anyways back learning
Python. Okay. Let's get started.
So if you haven't already opened up
a lab for Python episode six day one,
and you're like, I don't
know where that is.
Well then check the link below and get
signed up, man. Come on. It's free now.
So far,
our robot barista bouncer is doing a
fantastic job and we did a great job in
telling him how to do a great job because
in the last few videos we said, Hey,
let's do some if statements to figure
out and filter through the evil bends.
If their name is Ben and they are
evil, cuz not all Bens are evil.
Remember they can come in. But now, now
we got a different problem. Don't we?
Because evil, Patricia is on
the scene are her robot barista.
Bouncer is not prepared to prevent
evil Patricia from coming in.
So we gotta change that right
now. So if we look at our code,
we can see that we're already saying,
Hey, if the variable name is equal to Ben,
if that evaluates too true, then
kick him out. Or also if he's evil,
but now we have to evaluate, Hey,
not only does name have to equal Ben.
It also could Patricia then kick
her out too, to do that new concept,
tie something called logical
operators and watch this.
This is pure magic and it's so
simple, too elegant over here.
Let's go ahead and do this
together where it says,
if name equals Ben right before our colon,
let's get a space and then
we'll put in this type in or,
or check that out as we finish
that R it changed colors and now we
can type in name equals
the string. Patricia.
Ooh, powerful. Right? With one simple.
If statement we're evaluating,
if one thing is true or something
else is true. If Ben comes in,
dude, this is true. If Patricia
comes in, dude, this is true.
And now we have the power to kick
Patricia out. Let's test it out.
Let's run our code. Click
on run. What's your name?
Let's test our code real quick. Let's
say our name is Ben. Ben. I'm evil. Ben.
I'm not welcome here. Get
out. Let's run it again.
Let's test an average person like
camera. Cameron's a good guy, right? Oh,
Cameron came right in. But now let
me stop that script. The beard thing.
We'll we'll talk about that here
in a bit. Let's run it again.
This time we are evil Patricia. So
my name's Patricia, are you evil?
Yeah, we got it. And again,
this is so cool because we don't have
to have name equal both Ben and Patricia
and know it can be either
or so powerful man.
So many use cases and I may have
noticed, and this is kind of annoying.
It's annoying to me anyway, uh, here
in our print message. We're like,
you're not welcome here,
Ben, but that was Patricia.
Patricia at this point is super
confused. Like I'm not Ben. I am evil.
I am Patricia, but I'm not Ben.
So real quick use your skills that you've
learned so far in this course and fix
that for me real quick,
pause and UN pause.
Let's fix super simple. Right? If you
watched all the previous episodes,
we basically have to do what we're
doing here in our L statement.
We have to use the name variable and
connate that with our print statement.
So I'll do that real quick.
Instead of putting Ben right here,
we're gonna move all that right there.
I'll make that first part of
string on its own. And I'll say,
plus the variable in name, but should be
Patricia or Ben plus the other string.
We're concatenating, all kinds of stuff
all over the place. Five Ben, Patricia,
and we'll yell at her. Get out of
here. Good work. Let's try it out. Oh,
forgot my closing pro on
the print statement. There
we go. Run. I am Patricia.
I am indeed evil. I was like, wait,
what? Why does he Patricia twice?
I just realized what I did here.
That's what happens when you try to
teach and type. Now let me run that.
That was weird. Perfect. That works now.
So we cover the logical operator or
super powerful, but not the only one.
And it's a good thing because we have
another case we have to look at here.
Another requirement for our robot,
barista bouncer. The other day,
I was watching Lokey on Disney.
Plus you ever seen it? It's amazing.
And in watching that show,
I realized that being evil,
isn't black and white look because Lokey
does bad things. He certainly is evil,
but he also does good things, which
that reminds me Lokey is totally evil.
So if Lokey ever comes to our coffee
shop real quick challenge for you.
Let's make sure Lokey
that's a different color.
Let's make sure Lokey can't come in. Can
you add that to our script? Real quick,
pause the video. See what you got. UN
pause. I'm gonna add it real quick.
This is what you would do.
Ben or Patricia or? Yeah,
you could do another or three or, or no,
that's only two, two ORs. I can count.
I promise name equals Lokey.
Let's try that out real quick.
Lokey comes in. Yeah. He's evil. Got
it. Okay, cool. So back to my story.
Yes. Lokey is evil,
but sometimes he does good things
and I want to account for that.
I wanna factor that in. So
essentially here's what I want.
We're gonna make this super
complicated cuz we have to we're it.
People here know I want, if Ben comes
in and Ben is evil, he answers. Yes.
And let's say if he's done four or more
good deeds that day he can come in.
Even if he is evil. So
how would we do that now?
I know things are getting a bit confusing.
That's why we're going to flow chart
mode. Here we go. Flow charts. Dun dun,
dun. It's not scary at all.
So here is the logical view of
what we're doing in our script.
What's your name is your name? Ben.
Patricia. And also Lokey. Let me add that.
If the answer is no, then come
on in. If the answer is yes,
let's make sure you're not evil. Are
you evil? No. Come on in. Yes. Get out.
But now we wanna say with our new logic,
how many good deeds have you done today?
If less than four, get outta here.
You're still evil. But if you've done
four or more good deeds, then Hey,
come on in. I can work with that.
I love me some anti heroes. Yeah.
Now this should be a fun one because
you can do this in probably a million
different ways,
but I wanna challenge you to use
logical operators to make this happen.
I remember so far we've already
covered the or logical operator and,
but let me introduce a new
one to, for you real quick.
And I'm not gonna tell you how to use it.
Cause I think it's kind of intuitive
and I want you to try it out.
Just mess with it and
break it. Another one is,
and I want you to try and use
the and logical operator. Oh,
and also let me do this.
I'm gonna put you into a tighter box on
what you can do. Only change this one.
If statement to make this
happen. Only that one. Okay.
For go pause me and see
what you got. UN pause.
Let's work through this real
quick. So here at our task,
we pretty much have two things
we have to accomplish. First.
We have to find out, Hey, how
many good deeds have Lokey,
Patricia or Ben completed today?
And just like their Eagle status.
All we have to do is just ask them
because why would they lie about that?
Duh man, they're they're not
crazy. They're just evil.
So just under evil status,
we'll set a new variable.
We'll call it good underscore deeds
and we'll have that equal and input
cuz we're gonna ask them, Hey,
how many good deeds have you done today?
And we'll do a little back
slash and end to make it pretty,
put some space there, but hold up
quick quiz. This ain't gonna work.
And why and yeah, I did say ain't
it's okay. Why won't this work?
It's because again, the input
function will use a string by default.
We have to convert that to an integer.
So we'll just wrap that little
input by function there with an
integer function around it. Perfect.
So now how many good deeds they have
done will be stored any good deeds
variable. So now for the
second part of this task,
we need to add some logic
here. So let's get to our,
if statement over here and make some
changes. So just after this, yes,
I'm gonna put a new operator in. We
just talked about it. It's going to be,
and so I'll go a and D color change.
We know something's happening,
magic's happening hit space.
And I'll see if Eagle status
is yes and good deeds.
And I'll use one of our comparison
operators less than four.
That should do it. Yeah. I think
you should do it. So check it out.
Here's what's happening in order for this,
if statement to evaluate to
true both the evil status must
be yes. And their good deeds
must be less than four.
So if they're evil and they've
only done two good deeds, then bam,
this statement's true. And will print,
get your stinking, hide it outta here.
You're not welcome. You're two evil
for this place, this establishment.
And that's what the and
operator does for us.
It's not just saying this or this either
could be true saying both of these
suckers have to be true in
order for us to continue.
So let's try it out real quick. Run
this time. I'm just gonna be a lowkey.
Why not? I'm lowkey am
my evil. Of course. Yes.
But how many good deeds have I done
today? Let's say we've we've been good.
We did seven good deeds
today. We made it in. Yeah,
we were evil, but Hey, we made up
for it. That's how that works. Right?
I don't know. Probably not,
but now I'll see what happens if we didn't
do enough. Good deeds. Let's run it.
What's my name. I am Patricia.
Am I evil? Of course I am.
How many good deeds I've only done two
good deeds today. I now welcome here.
Less than four D who man,
take yourself a coffee break.
Cuz right now with the power of Python,
we saw the problem of evil
kind of, we didn't solve it.
We were able to detect if evil people
are walking into our coffee shop and now
our robot bar a bouncer is doing
a killer job, but also real quick,
I kind of have a, a brain
breaking scenario here. It's
gonna hurt a little bit.
So we covered the or
logical operator and the,
and logical operator. But there's another
one that I don't really use often,
but it's there.
But I think it's worth mentioning cuz
it'll help you understand if statements
even more. And this is the not
operator now to talk about this,
let's go ahead and launch
lab two for this episode,
episode six and we got a bit
of a clean slate here and here.
We're gonna use the same logic as before.
If Ben comes in, don't let him in.
And we strip things down. It's very
simple here so I can illustrate this.
My pen. Sorry, evil. Ben strikes
again. That rhymed a lot anyways.
And I'll just run the code just to
make sure it works. What's your name?
My name is Ben. Get
outta here. Very simple.
Now I wanna do something with
our not logical operator.
I'm gonna throw 'em in right here.
Let's try it out. This is so weird.
It really is. If not
notice that change color.
It's a real logical operator. If not
name equals Ben, what's gonna happen.
Well only one way to find out, right? And
also guess what you think will happen.
Positive video. Think about
it. I'm not gonna wait for you.
Let's run the code right now. Run.
What's your name? Let's try Ben.
Come on in what just happened?
Well with our, if statement,
what we're saying is if the name
doesn't equal, Ben, then do this.
If it does equal Ben, then do this.
So we just basically did the opposite
of what our original statement said.
If net equals bend, do this. Now we're
saying if name not equal, Ben do this.
Now, if that broke your
brain a bit, me too,
because even now I have to sit here and
go, wait, wait, if not, okay, I got it.
Now it takes a bit right?
And I think it might help if we talk
about bulls to make it make more sense.
Let me explain this whole time.
When I've been talking about controlling
the flow of bar Python programming,
we've been dealing with
if statements, right?
We'll say if whatever this junk is
evaluates to, what do we say? True.
Do something. If the statement's
false, do something else.
These two bits of data here
true and false are what we call
boos, which I don't know
why, but when I say boos,
it makes me hungry and I really
don't have a reason anyways.
So I'm probably gonna eat after this
video. And boos is actually a data type.
So let's play with them
for a second. Let's do it.
So right here in our terminal
here, I'm gonna clear my stuff out.
Did you know that we can actually just
type stuff in our terminal and do Python
in real time? So do this. I
want you to set a new variable,
say the variable me and have
that equal your name. So for me,
it'll be network check the string
network. Check for you. It'll be Bob or,
or Ben, sorry, Ben. I set that
variable. Bam. So right now,
while we're in this terminal,
in the context of just being
here before we reset it,
that's where the variable
equals me is you. Huh?
So if I call that variable just by
typing in me, it calls network. Chuck.
Now try this type in me and then
do double equal sign equals equals
do a space and let's do the
ring of your name network,
Chuck that we just did before.
So the same exact thing before,
but we have one extra equal sign.
What do you think will be the output
here it out. True. How cool is that?
Because the double equal sign is
evaluating. If something is true or false.
And we said, Hey, does
me equal network Chuck?
And because we just said it there, it
totally does what happened. My voice just,
I don't don't know what
happened now let's try this.
I want you to print the
type of that data. Now this,
if you recall back from one of
our earlier episodes, we did that.
Let's try it real quick here.
I'll say print parentheses type.
We're printing our type function.
Parentheses me equal equals network.
Chuck I'll close out my string of the
quote then parenty and I think I need one
more parentheses. Yes. Okay,
cool. So we're all good.
When I print the type of
that data, check this out.
A new data class and earlier
episodes, we saw strings,
we saw integers and we saw floating
point numbers and all kinds of stuff.
I think, think just those three. Now
we have the Julian true or false.
And that's the data type we're working
with when we're dealing with lot of
widths. I just said if statements,
so now one more thing, try this.
I want you to do me once more.
We'll do our equals equals our
comparison operator and compare that to a
false thing. I'll do Nick. I'll do one
for you, Nick. Like Nick, I'm not Nick.
So when I run that is pairing the
me variable to Nick and saying, Hey,
is this me variable equal Nick,
it should return false. Right?
And it certainly does. That's a false
statement, but now let's break your brain,
hit the up arrow and bring that up again.
Put that knot operator in front of it.
That not logical operator, not me
equals Nick. What will that evaluate to?
Let's try it out. True. It's not, it's
just a better way to understand it.
Play with it, play
around with things here.
The reason this evaluated to true is
we're saying, Hey, is this statement true?
Is me not equal to Nick? It's
kinda like you saying, Hey,
I don't not want coffee. Right? That's
kinda, that's kinda what it is in Python.
Not me equals Nick. Not
one more quick, fun thing.
Last thing I promise here in our script,
I use the knot to basically do the
opposite. Is the name not equal to Ben?
There's actually another way to do
it. And a more common way to do it.
It's actually something I use more
often take the knot away, no more knots.
And let's work with our
comparison operator,
remove your equals and let's
do exclamation point equal.
Sign that right there. Pretty much
accomplishments. The same thing.
We just use a logical operator.
Now we're using a comparison
operator to do the same thing.
This means not equals. If name does not
equal Ben, then that makes more sense.
Right? I feel like if saying, if not
name, that's like speaking pig Latin,
but if we run it again, it does the
same thing as not right. Who, okay,
one more coffee break.
Cuz that was crazy because now don't
you just feel more powerful in Python
because now you can control the
flow of your programming comparison,
logical conditional operators to just
do all kinds of stuff and don't stop
there.
I'm gonna have in the link below some
challenge labs for you to complete and
accomplish because honestly with Python
and programming and anything in it,
pretty much anything in life
repetition will help you get there.
It'll cement those ideas
into your brain before law.
I'm gonna be coding like a wizard
anyways. That's episode six.
That's all I got massive. Shout out to
it. Pro TV, the sponsor of this video,
the series. The other reason,
this is free on YouTube here.
So if you haven't already check them out,
if you wanna study it like me and
get 30% off forever use code network,
Chuck and also, Hey, have you
hacked the YouTube algorithm today?
Just make sure you do at that like
button bell comment. Subscribe.
You gotta hack YouTube today.
Ethically of course. And yeah,
that's really all I got. I'll
catch you guys next time.